# redfish
This repository is associated with the rproj and data for the Whitney Lab redfish acoustic telemetry project.

Conservation using novel scientific approaches: The Whitney Lab already has in place an evolving network of continual environmental data collection instruments strategically located in key field locations. Our measurable results will include red fish detections along this sensor network in order to link fish behavior to specific habitat parameters. Our comprehensive sensor network has five sets of instruments. At each station, a multi-parameter data-logging sonde is coupled with a current velocity meter, a pair of animal tracking receivers and an automated water grab sampler. Baseline data of environmental parameters will be recorded including combined chlorophyll and blue green algae sensors and fluorescent dissolved organic matter. When coupled with acoustic receivers that will be able to detect juvenile and adult red drum migratory patterns in our local observatory network will expand our understanding the mechanisms of red drum distribution and migration. This marriage of biogeochemistry technology and fishing tracking and physiology will make it possible for the first time to document long-term effects of how red drum react to anthropogenic habitat change, climate induced mangrove migration into salt marshes and other large scale disturbance effects on biota, sediment and nutrient fluxes. Community research involvement: We will lead citizen science activities to help accomplish our goals and bring science awareness to the community. We will activate a network of local anglers, tournament organizers, and guides to help locate, collect and tag breeding and juvenile red fish and promote stewardship of key habitats. Our YouTube channel Fish Code Studios () has over 180,000 views and 8,000 subscribers and will serve as a vehicle to disseminate scientific results to anglers. During this project, we will join a larger scientific network for conservation: This research using receivers is established up and down the eastern shoreboard from other researchers (from Maine to Florida), enabling integration with large scale migration data and collaboration with the Florida Atlantic Coast Telemetry Array (FACT). FACT is a collaboration of over 2 dozen marine research organizations interested in resolving the migration strategies of fishes and sea turtles un the US South Atlantic. 
